4-30-17

What are the two components of CSS rules?
Attributes and values
Selectors and declarations
Properties and equations
Objects and forces

A CSS rule consists of a selector and declarations such as p { color: #333; } where p is the selector and color: #333 is the declaration.



What are the two components of CSS declarations?
Property and value
Selector and declaration
Subject and object
None of the above

A CSS declaration consists of a property and value. Example, text-align: center; where text-align is the property and center is the value.



In CSS what declaration can horizontally center a block level element?
text-align: center;
margin: auto;
align: middle;
please: center;

Block level elements can be horizontally centered using margin: auto; this would put automatic margin on the left and right sides of the element horizontally centering it within its parent.




What CSS declaration can be given to an element to center any inline content nested within it?
text-align: center;
margin: auto;
align: middle;
content: middle;

By giving an element text-align: center; any nested inline content, such as text, images and links, will be aligned in the center.







What CSS declaration would change the color of text within an element to purple?
text-color: purple;
font-color: purple;
color: purple;
color-text: purple;

To change the color of the text within an element you would use the css declaration color: purple;



What type of elements start a new line before and after the element and span the width of their parent container by default?
inline
box
span
block

Block-level elements will by default start a new line before and after the element and span the width of their parent container.


Which of the following would be a valid css selector?
.icon
#main-header
h1
All of the above

All of these could be used as a css selector, .icon would target elements with the class of icon, #main-header would target an element with the id of main-header and h1 would target all h1 tags.



A CSS document has the following two CSS rules, h1 { color: green; } .main-header { color: red; } .  A linked HTML document has an h1 with the class of main-header, what color will its text be?
Purple
Green
Black
Yellow

In CSS class selectors are more specific than element selectors so the heading text would display as red.






5-1-17

A CSS declaration should always end in a
;
>
)
]

CSS declarations always end in a ; known as a semicolon. Example, font-size: 24px;  Though the semicolon is not necessary if only giving one CSS declaration to a selector it’s a good habit to always put it in anyway.




Which of the following CSS declarations will make the background image of an element expand to fill the element?
background-expand: full;
background-size: cover;
background-expand: cover;
size-background: full;

The CSS declaration to make a background image expand to fill the element is background-size: cover;





What is the default positioning of an element?
static
relative
absolute
fixed

The default positioning for elements is static where the elements will render in the order that they appear in the HTML document.





What is the generic HTML block-level container element that is used to divide various parts of a web page for styling and layout?
<box>
<divide>
<div>
<container>

<div> is the traditional generic block-level container element in HTML, it is short for division and is used to group various other HTML elements together for styling and layout.  It needs an opening tag <div> and a closing tag </div>






By default an image element will be what size?
100px
It will fill the width of its parent container by default.
It will display at the size and dimensions of the image file.
It will not display unless you give it a width.

By default images will display at the size and dimensions of the image file itself, this can be changed by using CSS.






Which of the following CSS declarations will set the font-face of an element to Helvetica with a fall back of the default sans-serif font if Helvetica is not available?
font-family: sans-serif, Helvetica;
font-face: Helvetica, sans-serif;
make-font: sans-serif, Helvetica;
font-family: Helvetica, sans-serif;

You can set the font of an element by setting the font-family property to a value or values like this font-family: Helvetica, sans-serif; In this example Helvetica will try to load first, if Helvetica is not available the computers default sans-serif font will be used.



